 1,2 - Intro to course


SECTION 2 - EQ Explained.
3- Emotional Intelligence is not supressing or hiding the emotions, but its about identifying how our emotions are affecting and influencing our words and decisions. It is about the awareness of emotions.
  
4- EQ Model.
Self awareness - Feeling of an emotion, Noticing the changes in the body, tensed or joy. 
Self management-  Reacting wisely on the emotions.
Social awareness -  Empathy, Understanding what others are trying to say verbaly or non-verbaly.
Relationship management - Teamwork and collaborations


5 - Brain and EQ -  1 Emotional centre - Amygdala; 2 Logical centre - Prefrontal Cortex. In most cases 1 reacts first than the 2. You must have conversations between these two on a daily basis i.e., think of a situation emotionally and then think it logically, then debate and conclude. 99.9% of time the logicality alwas wins. 

6 - Emotional Baggage.

7 - Building brain - Neuroplasticity. Change small behaviours on a daily basis. Use logical centre more than emotional centre. Understand the patterns and rewire them. 

8 - EQ at bussiness. - EQ over IQ.  Skills like, good communication, leadership and public speaking is more preferable (80%) than just technical knowledge (20%)




SECTION 3 - DEVELOPING EQ

10 - Knowing what you feel - Feeling at the moment. How the body is reacting. Understand what it is, fear? anxiety? worries? Once you differentiate, you're good to go. Remember to be in the moment.

11 - Why do you feel? - Root cause of a feeling through analysis. Find reasons and trace the origin. There is always a pattern. 

12 - What are your buttons? - Weak points where your emotional reaction overpowers you. Unattentiveness, bad tone while talking, disturbing the privacy, not valuing my time. Controlling and managing you behaviour under such circumstances leads to a better development of EQ. Work with patience. 

13 Feel it, place it and get it. 

14 - Mistakes to avoid in your EQ development- 
   Becoming too concious about hiding emotions. 
   Worrying about offending people. 
   Avoiding risks.  
   EQ is the solution to EVERYTHING. 
   Failing to ask for help.
   
   
   
   
SECTION - EQ AT WORKPLACE 

 15 Identifying EQ around you. - Social Awareness (Watchin and listening to others) Learn what they respond to, what they like.
 
 16 Example of Low EQ -  Emotional outburst.
 
 Passive aggressive behaviousr. 
 Allowing small things to cause big reaction.  
 Failing to recognize others emotion. 
 Inability to read  social cues - doesnt take the time to read or pay attention to some signals.
 Self Centredness.
 Lack of Empathy and Emotions
 Lack of self awareness
 Blaming others
 
 High EQ - 
 Asking question for clarity when critisized.
 Listening before speaking.
 Ability to apologize without being nudged to do so.
 Showing full range of emotion in an appropriate manner.
 Learn
 Sharinf praise and criticism.
 Demonstrating empathy.
 Being assertive but not aggressive.
 Making mistakes and admitting it
 Valuing the goals of organiszation over his own


17 - Activity - Spot it.

18 - Activity - Using EQ for Managing relationship   - Understanding emotions of others plays a very important part in acheiving the management of any relationship. 
  
  A productive relationship has these three elements: 

CLARITY: you understand your role
COMMUNICATION: you have a regular routine and methods to communicate
COLLABORATION: you feel your expertise is valued and encouraged; it’s a partnership



SECTION 5 - Conclusion.


19 - Your EQ Plan -   
    
 What is the most important thing you learned in this course?
 
 What are the two EQ buttons you will focus on next week at work? Choose just two people, places, situations, or things that you need to be more self-aware of — and self-manage more.

 Who at work can hold you accountable? Who can be your EQ buddy? List the behaviors you would like this person to observe in you. 



21 -Your EQ Emoji- Which reflects your bodylanguage. (You can have severals)


8861880124 - Abhishek Saxena   --Krishna Highway City












    